DEVEL.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 fosslinux <fosslinux@aussies.space>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

# Development Guidelines

## Testing

Before making a PR, please test your change locally. It is OK to develop outside
of the live environment, but please be sure to test inside the live environment
and that a full build completes.

## Structure

```
seed
├── seed.kaem
├── script-generator.c
├── ...
└── stage0-posix

steps
├── manifest
├── any-global-files
├── jump
│   └── linux.sh
├── improve
│   └── x.sh
├── somepackage-version
│   ├── pass1.kaem
│   ├── pass2.sh
│   ├── files
│   ├── simple-patches
│   ├── mk
│   └── patches
```

The `seed` directory contains everything required for `script-generator` to be
run.

In the `steps` directory, the bootstrap process is defined in `manifest`.
Each package to be built is named `package-version`.
Each subsequent build of a package is the nth pass. Scripts are named
accordingly; eg, the first build would be called `pass1.sh`, the second would be
`pass2.sh`, etc.
Scripts run in kaem era should be denoted as such in their filename;
`pass1.kaem`, for example. Pass numbers do not reset after kaem, ie, you cannot
have both `pass1.kaem` and `pass1.sh`.

In this folder, there are other folders/files. `*.checksums` are
required for early packages that are build with kaem, others are optional.

Permissible folders/files:

- `files`: auxiliary files required for the build distributed by live-bootstrap.
- `mk`: makefiles.
- `patches`: patches for the source.
- `simple-patches`: patches for the source that use the before/after convention of simple-patch.c
- `*.checksums`: files containing the checksums for the resulting binaries and
libraries that are compiled and installed.
  - Otherwise, the package's checksum is in SHA256SUMS.pkgs.
- compilation script(s)

## Conventions

- **Patches:**
  - all patches are `-p0`
  - all patches begin with a patch header
- **parts.rst:**
  - all packages are explained in `parts.rst`
- **General:**
  - Where possible, all blocks of text should be limited to a length of 80
    characters.
  - There is no character limit for code, the reasons for this are two-fold:
    - Often harms readability.
    - Often impossible/hard in early bootstrap stages.
- **Licensing:**
  - Generally, the project is licensed under the GNU GPL v3.0 (or any later
    version).
  - Documentation is licensed under CC-BY-SA-4.0.
  - Patches are licensed under the license of the project which they are
    patching.
  - All files (excluding files within submodules) must comply with REUSE v3.0.

Commit message:

Make patches relative to where tarballs are extracted
Ever since an old patch version, it has (for reasonable security
reasons) not supported patched with ../ in the filename.
Many of our patches have been relying on this behaviour being OK,
because we start off with an ancient patch version that didn't perform
such checks. As soon as we need this behaviour after we build a newer
patch though, we will have problems.

So, let's change the policy.
Patches are relative to where tarballs are extracted, rather than the
"working directory" - e.g. have patches for `coreutils-9.4/src/cp.c`
instead of `src/cp.c`.
Keeping this consistent has a few implications;
- patches are applied from the build/ directory in bash era now, with
  `-p0`
- when patches are manually applied in the bash era, use `-p` as
  required, usually `-p1`
- in kaem era where patches are always manually applied, `-p1` is used

DEVEL.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2021 fosslinux <fosslinux@aussies.space>

SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

# Development Guidelines

## Testing

Before making a PR, please test your change locally. It is OK to develop outside
of the live environment, but please be sure to test inside the live environment
and that a full build completes.

## Structure

```
seed
├── seed.kaem
├── script-generator.c
├── ...
└── stage0-posix

steps
├── manifest
├── any-global-files
├── jump
│   └── linux.sh
├── improve
│   └── x.sh
├── somepackage-version
│   ├── pass1.kaem
│   ├── pass2.sh
│   ├── files
│   ├── simple-patches
│   ├── mk
│   └── patches
```

The `seed` directory contains everything required for `script-generator` to be
run.

In the `steps` directory, the bootstrap process is defined in `manifest`.
Each package to be built is named `package-version`.
Each subsequent build of a package is the nth pass. Scripts are named
accordingly; eg, the first build would be called `pass1.sh`, the second would be
`pass2.sh`, etc.
Scripts run in kaem era should be denoted as such in their filename;
`pass1.kaem`, for example. Pass numbers do not reset after kaem, ie, you cannot
have both `pass1.kaem` and `pass1.sh`.

In this folder, there are other folders/files. `*.checksums` are
required for early packages that are build with kaem, others are optional.

Permissible folders/files:

- `files`: auxiliary files required for the build distributed by live-bootstrap.
- `mk`: makefiles.
- `patches`: patches for the source.
- `simple-patches`: patches for the source that use the before/after convention of simple-patch.c
- `*.checksums`: files containing the checksums for the resulting binaries and
libraries that are compiled and installed.
  - Otherwise, the package's checksum is in SHA256SUMS.pkgs.
- compilation script(s)

## Conventions

- **Patches:**
  - all patches are relative to the directory where the tarball is extracted
    - thus, no patch lines for `a/file.c`, but `coreutils-9.4/file.c`
  - all patches begin with a patch header
- **parts.rst:**
  - all packages are explained in `parts.rst`
- **General:**
  - Where possible, all blocks of text should be limited to a length of 80
    characters.
  - There is no character limit for code, the reasons for this are two-fold:
    - Often harms readability.
    - Often impossible/hard in early bootstrap stages.
- **Licensing:**
  - Generally, the project is licensed under the GNU GPL v3.0 (or any later
    version).
  - Documentation is licensed under CC-BY-SA-4.0.
  - Patches are licensed under the license of the project which they are
    patching.
  - All files (excluding files within submodules) must comply with REUSE v3.0.
